# Rooms
Single, circular spaces found near the center of a system.
```
rooms: {
  scale: 6
  scaleY: 0.5
}
```
- rooms: `{object}`
  - *Optional. If* `blankSlate = true` *and this field is left out, rooms will not be generated by this preset.*


- scale: `int`
  - Radius in blocks of the room. *Optional, defaults to* `6`*.*


- scaleY: `float`
  - Multiplier applied to the scale to get the room height. *Optional, defaults to* `0.5`*.*


# Tunnels
These settings are used to generate the cave system.
```
tunnels: {
  frequency: 15
  minHeight: 8
  maxHeight: 128
  distance: 0
  systemChance: 0.25
  isolatedChance: 0.142
  systemDensity: 4
  noiseYReduction: true
  resizeBranches: true
  twistXZ: {
    startVal: 0
    factor: 0.75
    randFactor: 2
    exponent: 1
  }
  twistY: {
    startVal: 0
    factor: 0.9
    randFactor: 2
    exponent: 1
  }
  scale: {
    startVal: 0
    startValRandFactor: 1
    factor: 1
    randFactor: 0
    exponent: 1
  }
  scaleY: {
    startVal: 1
    factor: 1
    randFactor: 0
    exponent: 1
  }
  angleXZ: {
    startVal: 0
    startValRandFactor: 1
  }
  angleY: {
    startVal: 0
    startValRandFactor: 0.25
  }
}
```
- tunnels: `{object}`
  - *Optional. If* `blankSlate = true` *and this field is left out, tunnels will not be generated by this preset.*


- frequency: `int`
  - Average number of tunnel systems to spawn per chunk. *Optional, defaults to* `15`*.*


- minHeight: `int`
  - Minimum height to start tunnels. *Optional, defaults to* `8`*.*


- maxHeight: `int`
  - Maximum height to start tunnels. *Optional, defaults to* `128`*.*


- distance: `int`
  - Length in blocks of the tunnel. A value of `0` produces caves 132~176 blocks long. *Optional, defaults to* `0`*.*


- systemChance: `float`
  - Chance that multiple tunnels will start at an origin, out of 1. *Optional, defaults to* `0.25`*.*


- isolatedChance: `float`
  - Chance than any origin will be skipped, out of 1. *Optional, defaults to* `0.142`*.*


- systemDensity: `int`
  - Maximum number of tunnels from an origin. *Optional, defaults to* `4`*.*


- noiseYReduction: `boolean`
  - A value of `true` limits how rapidly a tunnel can climb or fall. *Optional, defaults to* `true`*.*


- resizeBranches: `boolean`
  - A value of `true` causes branches off of tunnels to be smaller than their main tunnel. You may want to set it to `false` when using larger tunnels. *Optional, defaults to* `true`*.*


- twistXZ: `{ScalableFloat object}`
  - Affects how rapidly a tunnel twists horizontally between segments. Calculated with the formula `((startVal*factor)+(randomValue*randFactor))^exponent`. *Optional.*


- twistY: `{ScalableFloat object}`
  - Affects how rapidly a tunnel twists vertically between segments. Calculated with the formula `((startVal*factor)+(randomValue*randFactor))^exponent`. *Optional.*


- scale: `{ScalableFloat object}`
  - Causes tunnel radius variation. Calculated with the formula `(((startVal+(randomValue*startValRandFactor))*factor)+(randomValue*randFactor))^exponent`. *Optional.*


- scaleY: `{ScalableFloat object}`
  - scaleY is a multiple of scale on the vertical axis. If `scale = 6` and `scaleY = 0.5`, the height becomes 3. Calculated with the formula `((startVal*factor)+(randomValue*randFactor))^exponent`. *Optional.*


- angleXZ: `{ScalableFloat object}`
  - Horizontal angle in radians. Calculated with the formula `(startVal+(randomValue*startValRandFactor))`. *Optional.*


- angleY: `{ScalableFloat object}`
  - Vertical angle in radians. Calculated with the formula `(startVal+(randomValue*startValRandFactor))`. *Optional.*



# Ravines
Ravines are like tunnels, but with random variations in horizontal scale. You could theoretically use this as your main tunnels, if you're using multiple presets.
```
ravines: {
  chance: 0.02
  minHeight: 20
  maxHeight: 66
  distance: 0
  twistXZ: {
    startVal: 0
    factor: 0.5
    randFactor: 4
    exponent: 1
  }
  twistY: {
    startVal: 0
    factor: 0.8
    randFactor: 2
    exponent: 1
  }
  scale: {
    startVal: 0
    startValRandFactor: 2
    factor: 1
    randfactor: 0
  }
  scaleY: {
    startVal: 3
    factor: 1
    randFactor: 0
    exponent: 1
  }
  angleXZ: {
    startVal: 0
    startValRandFactor: 1
  }
  angleY: {
    startVal: 0
    startValRandFactor: 0
  }
  noiseYFactor: 0.7
  wallNoise: {
    noise2D: {
      scale: 0.5
      frequency: 0.1
      minVal: 0
      maxVal: 4
    }
  }
}
```
- ravines: `{object}`
  - *Optional. If* `blankSlate = true` *and this field is left out, ravines will not be generated by this preset.*


- chance: `float`
  - Chance for a ravine to occur. *Optional, defaults to* `0.02`*.*


- minHeight: `int`
  - Minimum height for ravines to stretch. *Optional, defaults to* `20`*.*


- maxHeight: `int`
  - Maximum height for ravines to stretch. *Optional, defaults to* `66`*.*


- distance: `int`
  - Length in blocks of the ravine. A value of `0` produces caves 132~176 blocks long. *Optional, defaults to* `0`*.*


- twistXZ: `{ScalableFloat object}`
  - Affects how rapidly a ravine twists horizontally between segments. Calculated with the formula `((startVal*factor)+(randomValue*randFactor))^exponent`. *Optional.*


- twistY: `{ScalableFloat object}`
  - Affects how rapidly a ravine twists vertically between segments. Calculated with the formula `((startVal*factor)+(randomValue*randFactor))^exponent`. *Optional.*


- scale: `{ScalableFloat object}`
  - Causes ravine width variation. Calculated with the formula `(((startVal+(randomValue*startValRandFactor))*factor)+(randomValue*randFactor))^exponent`. *Optional.*


- scaleY: `{ScalableFloat object}`
  - scaleY is a multiple of scale on the vertical axis. This is the second most important variable accounting for the looks of ravines. Calculated with the formula `((startVal*factor)+(randomValue*randFactor))^exponent`. *Optional.*


- angleXZ: `{ScalableFloat object}`
  - Horizontal angle in radians. Calculated with the formula `(startVal+(randomValue*startValRandFactor))`. *Optional.*


- angleY: `{ScalableFloat object}`
  - Vertical angle in radians. Calculated with the formula `(startVal+(randomValue*startValRandFactor))`. *Optional.*


- noiseYFactor: `float`
  - Similar to noiseYReduction, but not as random. *Optional, defaults to* `0.7`*.*


- wallNoise: `{noise2D: {Noise2D object}}`
  - Contains an optional noise2D block used to change the look of ravine walls. This is completely optional, and will override the vanilla ravine wall generation features, producing smoother, more organic surfaces. The `scale` value is ignored. See the [Noise2D documentation]() for more information.


# Caverns
Big open spaces, probably.
```
caverns: {
  enabled: false
  minHeight: 10
  maxHeight: 50
  noise3D: {
    frequency: 0.0143
    scale: 0.2
    scaleY: 0.5
  }
  ceiling: {
    noise2D: {
      scale: 0.5
      frequency: 0.02
      minVal: -17
      maxVal: -3
    }
  }
  floor: {
    noise2D: {
      scale: 0.5
      frequency: 0.02
      minVal: 0
      maxVal: 8
    }
  }
}
```
- caverns: `{object}`
  - *Optional. If this field is left out, caverns will not be generated by this preset.*


- enabled: `boolean`
  - Determines if caverns should generate. *Optional, defaults to* `false`*.*


- minHeight: `int`
  - Minimum height for ravines to stretch. *Optional, defaults to* `10`*.*


- maxHeight: `int`
  - Maximum height for ravines to stretch. *Optional, defaults to* `50`*.*


- noise3D: `{Noise3D object}`
  - Optional Noise3D block for the main cavern shapes. All other Noise3D parameters are valid. `frequency` has an inverse effect: Higher frequency means fewer air pockets. Scale for noise-based objects is from 0-1. *Optional, defaults to example values.*


- ceiling: `{noise2D: {Noise2D object}}`
  - Optional Noise2D block for the cavern ceiling. The value produced is added to the terrain height. To avoid holes extending through the surface, use negative values only. Scale has no effect. *Optional, defaults to example values.*


- floor: `{noise2D: {Noise2D object}}`
  - Optional Noise2D block for the cavern floor. Scale has no effect. *Optional, defaults to example values.*
